
# Sid-Bird prj: PADOVA, CITY WITHOUT UNIVERSITY / UNIVERISTY WITHOUT CITY living in the university city after the COVID19 emergency (SPGI Department)

In a perspective of necessary distinction between "before" and "after" the Covid 19 which has changed the characteristics and methods of social relations as well as practices of use and consumption of public and private space, the research focuses on how they have changed / relationships and practices are changing in a “city-university ". 

On the one hand, the interdisciplinary literature on the spatial, social and economic structure of "city-campuses" points out the particular influences that the University exercises on urban organization, and the role that the value of the urban form, the equipment and of services, reception capacity and
social integration exert on the overall qualities of academic institutions, 
on the other hand the pandemic has imposed a vigorous reflection on the need to forecast changes in the traditional and consolidated forms of teaching, the development of research and above all the overall organization of spaces inside and outside the universities.

Padova, with a truly significant number of off-site students (about 60,000) - partly "temporary residents" and partly commuters - represents an excellent field of observation of the transformations that will occur in the short term in the ways of living and using the university space and urban space by students and on the forms of welcome / hospitality of these particular city users, who play a decisive (not always recognized) function in the development dynamics of a city. 

In the "city-campus" or rather in the "city + campus" (a definition that is based precisely on the strength and quality of the integration between the two organizations), the research will focus on the definition of some reference "frameworks" based on which to evaluate the formation of a scenario for the future development of the university organization:
1. the "field of action" of the university as it took shape in the period of maximum pandemic and more rigorous lock-down, through the necessary recourse to distance learning, trying to understand the expansion of the boundaries of the university and "University city" through digital connections (how far did the borders extend into space? Where were the students and teachers physically? How much space did the university embrace outside its city?).
2. In a hypothesis of a "digitalized" and "virtualized" university, what will become of the university city in a scenario "without" students? How will the city change in terms of housing supply / demand? What will be determined in the field of movement flows to and from the city and within the city? What will happen in the urban places lived by students? And in the long run: how universities and cities will have to readjust to the new condition? What will be the new spaces in which one will expand and / or the other will retract and vice-versa? What are the spaces in which the interaction will be visible and productive of new ideas and solutions between the two institutions for the well-being of the inhabitants - temporary and less temporary - of the city?

# The real innovation of the project consists in the proposed methodology. 

The research group, which combines the political and urban planning approach in a historical dimension, will in fact allow the combined use of scenario processing techniques with the construction of maps on which the collected data can be "projected", even through structured questionnaires addressed to students, intertwining data-driven maps produced in GIS with “community maps”, an expression of ethnographic research and field research. For the scenarios we will use the participatory SWOT analysis (on the MOSAIC platform) also to summarize the strategies shared by the actors involved in the research path.

The two-year duration of the project (2021-2022) will make it possible to present the results of the research on the occasion of the 800th anniversary of the University. 

With a view to opening the research to comparison with other European university cities with a structure and history similar to that of Padua, the comparison with the case of the university city of Coimbra appears very interesting and certainly a harbinger of new, sustainable research paths. even beyond this project from a network perspective, already consolidated between the two universities (Coimbra group).
